
*DAS-2 report
French legal entities doing business with self-employed professionals must provide to the tax authorities the DAS-2 declaration report  
The DAS-2 is an annual fiscal declaration that includes all payments of these type of vendors > 1200 EUR  and it should be generated in Excel format. Once the report is generated, the legal entity save this file in the ETAFI (CEGID) environment, then the file is validated and converted into to EDI structure to be finally transmitted.   

The DAS-2 excel report  is generated by using by using electronic reporting tool and include the following sheets:

	• Details: All vendor invoices paid by the select period and vendor profile with DAS-2 classification
	• Summary by vendor: This is the DAS-2 declaration grouped by vendor where each column represent the amounts per DAS-2 classification
	• DAS-2 form: Summary of declaration for each vendor. One form per vendor.


Before to generate the report for the first time, you need to download the following models and formats from LCS. Note: Downloading ER format instructions are detailed here: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dynamics365/unified-operations/dev-itpro/analytics/download-electronic-reporting-configuration-lcs 
	
	1. Statistics on invoices.version.32.xml or higher versions 
	2. Statistics on invoices model mapping.version.32.31.xml or higher versions
	3. DAS-2 report.version.32.14 (FR) or a higher versions. 
	4. DAS-2 form.version.32.14.6 (FR) or a higher versions. 
	

After you've finished downloading the ER configurations from LCS, follow these steps.

	1. In Microsoft Dynamics 365 Finance, select the related French company.
	2. Go to Workspaces > Electronic reporting, and set the Microsoft provider to Active.
	3. Select Configurations > Exchange, and load the configuration from the XML file to import the tax declaration model and GST report format file.
	4. In the Electronic reporting workspace, select Configurations > Setup.
	5. On the Conditions tab, select version 32.1, and create the configuration that will let you set up the mapping between the sales tax codes that are configured in your company and the related boxes of the GST-05 report:

		a. In the Lookup result field, select the related classification.
		b. In the Main account field, select the main account used to post the related transactions that belongs to this classification. 
		c. Set the Status parameter to Completed.
